[CELEBORN-1284][DOC] Add document about QuotaManager based on ConfigService (#2325)
apache/incubator-celeborn: docs/quota_management.md

---
license: |
Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one or more
contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file distributed with
this work for additional information regarding copyright ownership.
The ASF licenses this file to You under the Apache License, Version 2.0
(the "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance with
the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at

      https://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.
---

Quota Management
===

> Celeborn allows the administrator to set quotas for the number of names used.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Celeborn offers flexibility to administrators by allowing them to set quotas for individual users as well as providing a system-level default quota for those users who do not have a specified named quota. This ensures a level of control and customization in managing the quotas for the system.
```

Author: Done

The administrator also can set a system level default quota for all user that 
doesn't set a specified a named quota.

> When Master side sets `celeborn.quota.enabled` to true, the master will enable

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- When the `Master` side sets `celeborn.quota.enabled` to true, it enables quota checks through the `QuotaManager`.
- If the `Client` side also sets `celeborn.quota.enabled` to true, the `LifecycleManager` will request the `Master` side to check if the current user identifier has enough quota before registering the shuffle.
- If there is not enough quota for the current user, the `Master` side will initiate a fallback to the default shuffle service of Spark.
```

to check the quota via QuotaManager. When Client side also sets `celeborn.quota.enabled`
to true, LifecycleManager will request master side to check whether the current user identifier
has enough quota before registration of shuffle. Fallback to the default shuffle service
of Spark when Master side checks that there is no enough quota for current user.

## Quota

> Celeborn supports fine-grained quota management, now Celeborn including four indicators:

Reviewer: [Quota](https://celeborn.apache.org/docs/latest/configuration/#quota) introduces the quota configs. Therefore this only adds the link of quota config.

- `celeborn.quota.tenant.diskBytesWritten`: Maximum allowed disk write bytes, default value `Long.MAX_VALUE`.
- `celeborn.quota.tenant.diskFileCount`: Maximum allowed disk write file num, default value `Long.MAX_VALUE`.
- `celeborn.quota.tenant.hdfsBytesWritten`: Maximum allowed hdfs write bytes, default value `Long.MAX_VALUE`.
- `celeborn.quota.tenant.hdfsFileCount`: Maximum allowed hdfs write file num, default value `Long.MAX_VALUE`.

> ## User Identifier

Reviewer: Remove this section.

  - tenant id
  - username
The client LifecycleManager will request master side to check quota for current user that defined by user setting.
User can set `celeborn.quota.identity.provider` to choose a identity provider, now we support two type provider:
  - `org.apache.celeborn.common.identity.HadoopBasedIdentityProvider`: username will be obtained by `UserGroupInformation.getUserName()`, tenant id will be default.
  - `org.apache.celeborn.common.identity.DefaultIdentityProvider`: username and tenant id are default values or user-specific values setting by `celeborn.quota.identity.user-specific.tenant` and `celeborn.quota.identity.user-specific.userName`.
Celeborn uses `org.apache.celeborn.common.identity.DefaultIdentityProvider` as default. 
Also, the Celeborn users can implement their own specified identify provider inheriting interface `org.apache.celeborn.common.identity.IdentityProvider` by yourself.

## QuotaManager
Celeborn will initialize a QuotaManager in the master side checking quota.
QuotaManager uses [dynamic config service](developers/configuration.md#dynamic-configuration) to store quota settings mentioned in [Quota](#Quota).

> QuotaManger also supports two types of store backend configured by parameter `celeborn.dynamicConfig.store.backend` to store quota setting:

Reviewer: Remove this introduction of store backend for dynamic config.

Author: Done

  - FS: [FileSystem Store Backend](#FileSystem Store Backend)
  - DB: [Database Store Backend](#Database Store Backend)

> Currently, QuotaManager supports [three level](developers/configuration.md#Config Level) quota settings.

Reviewer: Remove this introduction.

Author: Done

> ### FileSystem Store Backend

Reviewer: We could introduce an example for quota management and provide how to config quota for this example.

---
license: |
Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one or more
contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file distributed with
this work for additional information regarding copyright ownership.
The ASF licenses this file to You under the Apache License, Version 2.0
(the "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance with
the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at

      https://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.
---

Quota Management
===

> The Celeborn allows the administrator to set quotas for the number of names used.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Celeborn allows the administrator to set quotas for the number of names used.
```

Author: Done

The administrator also can set a system level default quota for all user that 
doesn't set a specified a named quota.

When Master side sets `celeborn.quota.enabled` to true, the master will enable
to check the quota via QuotaManager. When Client side also sets `celeborn.quota.enabled`
to true, LifecycleManager will request master side to check whether the current user 
has enough quota before registration of shuffle. Fallback to the default shuffle service
of Spark when Master side checks that there is no enough quota for current user.

## Quota
Celeborn supports fine-grained quota management, now Celeborn including four indicators:

> - `celeborn.quota.tenant.diskBytesWritten`: Allowed maxed disk written bytes.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- `celeborn.quota.tenant.diskBytesWritten`: Maximum allowed disk write bytes.
```

Author: Done

- `celeborn.quota.tenant.diskFileCount`: Allowed maxed disk written file count.
- `celeborn.quota.tenant.hdfsBytesWritten`: Allowed maxed hdfs written bytes.

> - `celeborn.quota.tenant.hdfsFileCount`: Allowed maxed hdfs written bytes.

Reviewer 4: written bytes ->written  file count

## User Identifier
The Celeborn supports user identifier for two level:
  - tenant id
  - username
The client LifecycleManager will request master side to check quota for current user that defined by user setting.
User can set `celeborn.quota.identity.provider` to choose a identity provider, now we support two type provider:
  - `org.apache.celeborn.common.identity.HadoopBasedIdentityProvider`: username will be obtained by `UserGroupInformation.getUserName()`, tenant id will be default.
  - `org.apache.celeborn.common.identity.DefaultIdentityProvider`: username and tenant id are default values or user-specific values setting by `celeborn.quota.identity.user-specific.tenant` and `celeborn.quota.identity.user-specific.userName`.

> Celeborn use `org.apache.celeborn.common.identity.DefaultIdentityProvider` as default. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Celeborn uses `org.apache.celeborn.common.identity.DefaultIdentityProvider` as default. 
```

Also, the Celeborn user can implement their own specified identify provider inheriting interface `org.apache.celeborn.common.identity.IdentityProvider` by yourself.

## QuotaManager
The Celeborn will initialize a QuotaManager in the master side. Currently, QuotaManager supports three level configuration: 
  - Tenant User Level: When the tenant user level quota config is null or empty, fallback to the tenant level quota config. When the tenant level config is null or empty, fallback to the system level config again.
  - Tenant Level: When the tenant level config is null or empty, fallback to the system level config.
  - System Level: When the system level config is also null or empty, fallback to default value `Long.MAX_VALUE`.

> QuotaManager use dynamic [config service](#) to store quota settings mentioned in [Quota](#Quota),

Reviewer: ```suggestion
QuotaManagers use dynamic [config service](#) to store quota settings mentioned in [Quota](#Quota),
```

Author: Done

> QuotaManger also support two types of store backend configured by parameter `celeborn.dynamicConfig.store.backend`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
QuotaManger also supports two types of store backend configured by parameter `celeborn.dynamicConfig.store.backend`:
```

  - FS: [FileSystem Store Backend](#FileSystem Store Backend)

>   - DB: [DataBase Store Backend](#DataBase Store Backend)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - DB: [Database Store Backend](#DataBase Store Backend)
```

Author: Done

### FileSystem Store Backend
FileSystem store backend will read quota configuration file setting by 
`celeborn.quota.configuration.path`, if this path is not set,
The Celeborn will fall back to `dynamicConfig.yaml` under conf directory `$CELEBORN_HOME/conf/`.

### Example
The example yaml file as below:
```yaml
-  level: SYSTEM
   config:
     celeborn.quota.tenant.diskBytesWritten: 1G
     celeborn.quota.tenant.diskFileCount: 100
     celeborn.quota.tenant.hdfsBytesWritten: 1G

-  tenantId: tenant_01
   level: TENANT
   config:
     celeborn.quota.tenant.diskBytesWritten: 10G
     celeborn.quota.tenant.diskFileCount: 1000
     celeborn.quota.tenant.hdfsBytesWritten: 10G
   users:
     - name: Jerry
       config:
         celeborn.quota.tenant.diskBytesWritten: 100G
         celeborn.quota.tenant.diskFileCount: 10000
```

The quota for user `tenant_01.Jerry` is
  - diskBytesWritten: 100G
  - diskFileCount: 10000
  - hdfsBytesWritten: 10G
  - diskFileCount: Long.MAX_VALUE

The quota for tenant id `tenant_01` is
  - diskBytesWritten: 10G
  - diskFileCount: 1000
  - hdfsBytesWritten: 10G
  - diskFileCount: Long.MAX_VALUE

> The quota for tenant id `tenant_01` is

Reviewer 5: for system?

Author: Done

  - diskBytesWritten: 1G
  - diskFileCount: 100
  - hdfsBytesWritten: 1G
  - diskFileCount: Long.MAX_VALUE 

> ### DataBase Store Backend

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Database Store Backend
```

Author: Done

> DataBase Store Backend will read [quota configuration](#Quota) from user specified database.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Database Store Backend will read [quota configuration](#Quota) from user specified database.
```

> For how to use DataBase store backend can refer to [config service](./config_service.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For how to use database store backend can refer to [config service](./config_service.md).
```

Author: Done

---
license: |
Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one or more
contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file distributed with
this work for additional information regarding copyright ownership.
The ASF licenses this file to You under the Apache License, Version 2.0
(the "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance with
the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at

      https://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.
---

Quota Management
===

Celeborn allows administrators to set quotas for the number of names used.
A system-level default quota can also be set for all users who haven't specified a named quota.

> When `celeborn.quota.enabled` is set to true, the master checks the quota via QuotaManager.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When `celeborn.quota.enabled` is set to true, the master checks the quota via `QuotaManager`.
```

Author: Done

> If the same setting is enabled on the client side, the LifecycleManager will request

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the same setting is enabled on the client side, the `LifecycleManager` will request
```

Author: Done

the master to check if the current user identifier has enough quota before registration of shuffle.
If there's not enough quota, the system will fallback to the default shuffle service of Spark.

## Quota Indicators

Celeborn supports fine-grained quota management, including four indicators:

- `celeborn.quota.tenant.diskBytesWritten`: Maximum allowed disk write bytes, default value `Long.MAX_VALUE`.

> - `celeborn.quota.tenant.diskFileCount`: Maximum allowed disk write file num, default value `Long.MAX_VALUE`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `celeborn.quota.tenant.diskFileCount`: Maximum allowed number of disk write files, of which default value is `Long.MAX_VALUE`.
```

Author: Done

- `celeborn.quota.tenant.hdfsBytesWritten`: Maximum allowed HDFS write bytes, default value `Long.MAX_VALUE`.

> - `celeborn.quota.tenant.hdfsFileCount`: Maximum allowed HDFS write file num, default value `Long.MAX_VALUE`.

Reviewer: Ditto.

## User Identifier

> Celeborn supports user identifiers on two levels:

Reviewer: Remove this introduction.

Author: DOne

- Tenant ID
- Username

> The client's LifecycleManager will request the master to check the quota for the current user defined by user setting. Users can set `celeborn.quota.identity.provider` to choose an identity provider. We currently support two types:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `LifecycleManager` will request the `Master` to check the quota for the current user defined by user setting. Users can set `celeborn.quota.identity.provider` to choose an identity provider. Celeborn support the following types at present:
```

Author: Done
